---
date: 2025-08-08 19:28:06
templateKey: daily
title: 2025-08-08 Notes
published: True

---

## This Web ain't what it used to be

I found this [post](https://bsky.app/profile/miriam.codes/post/3lvuib52f7222)
from [miriam.codes](https://miriam.codes) while reading [dbushell's
notes](https://dbushell.com/notes/2025-08-08T05:38Z/).  I kinda agree with
Miriam and David here.  AI is really making me feel like an old curmudgeon.
Every day it gets more enshitified, filled with more nonsense, more hate, more
"fake news" which all news gets labeled as these days, nothing is credible to
anyone anymore.

What I'm here for is still plugging away at my own site, trying harder than
ever to find real people with real websites, who write real content that I
enjoy.  I'm going to continue staying in my lane, making notes that no one will
read, leaving thoughts no one will read, writing blog posts that might reach
10s of people who really care.

YouTube still feels like a safe place.  I see more and  more AI slop popping up
and off, but it doesn't hit my feed, happy for that so far.  I do see a lot of
creators using AI thumbnails, Most look obvious, but some feel like uncanny
faces of the people I follow and it's weird.  I think I follow the exact
average of the 2025 YT watcher, I watch a handful of the top 100 channels, and
a bunch of sub 1M average joes.  These all feel like people just sharing their
story.  A lot of them have Orange County Choppers Season 1 vibes, we are just
making good content about trying to make it in the world.  They haven't yet
descended into the madness that OCC became in its later seasons that was all
about building drama that tore the family apart.

## Moss Knight from [[ holow-knight-home-row-layout ]]

I took a break for awhile on the game, my son got bored and moved on.  He tends
to switch out games a lot faster than me.  I came back to it tonight after a
few months off and just got some geo from the moss knights for awhile.  I got
this decent clip of clearing them, I'm no pro, but getting better at timing on
the keeb layout.

![hollow-knight-keeb-moss-knight.mp4](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/d8571451-7a1e-4997-85eb-b5ce2cfdc209.mp4)

## Cyberbrick Crane Progress

Made some progress on the cyberbrick crane that I am building with Wyatt.

![screenshot-2025-08-09T01-11-50-464Z.png](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/038e01d4-d2c8-4635-83d2-43a04c076ab6.png)
