---
date: 2025-05-05 20:44:36
templateKey: blog-post
title: hollow knight home row layout
tags:
  - keyboard
  - gaming
  - hollow-knight
published: True

---

I just made it past 100% in my main hollow knight run, so now I will allow
myself to get silksong when it comes out.  I did this with a little bit of YT
guidance, but mostly just figuring it out.  I only just discovered the
[[reznormichael-hollow-knight-completion-check]] which got me an extra 2% for
a few items I must have got and not saved on, because I was sure I had them.


## Controller

Hollow Knight is a game that can be played with keyboard or controller, You can
use analog stick for movements, but they just translate to dpad, there really
are no analog moves in the game.  This makes it ripe for playing on pure
keyboard.  I really favor controller when there are more than one analog
(throttle, brake, steering for example).

On controller I've switched to only using d-pad as I feel like it gives me the
most crisp of controls.  It is really easy to miss a pogo on analog by hitting
slightly left or right.

## My Keyboard

My daily driver keyboard is a custom built 40% monoblock keyboard I absolutely
love using it, it perfectly plops down on a laptop when I am in laptop mode and
really fits me quite well for my wrok as a software/infrastructure engineer.

![screenshot-2025-05-06T02-36-55-641Z.png](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/9fd1dbf7-4c5d-4bb3-adaf-138755f90d54.png)

## WASD

_We've got to talk about pinky stagger_

I can use wasd perfectly fine on it, I have a layer that has no holds on any
keys so that they are all nice and crisp and tailored to gaming operations that
would require a hold.

Now what I haven't ran into before is that trying to game with wasd and use the
right side is very uncomfortable with this steep of a pinky stagger.  Generally
with keyboard an mouse games I have the keyboard a little slanted and move my
fingers to wasd just fine, but it just does not work well with both hands on
the keyboard.

## Enter asdf

Today is day one, I'm not quite sure how long it will last, but I am giving
asdf a try for arrow keys.  This will work much more akin to a fight stick
where each finger has a primary direction instead of using one finger for both
up and down.


!!! Note vim keys, but mirrored
    I chose to mirror vim keys with down towards the middle.  I had it the other
    way, but when I played, I kept pressing it the other way.

    * a - left
    * s - up
    * d - down
    * f - right

!!! Note power keys
    I wanted to put the most common keys on the strongest finger (feels like
    left pinky breaks this mantra, but whatever).

    * j - attack
    * k - dash
    * l - focus/cast
    * h - quick cast
    * e - inventory
    * u - super dash
    * m - map
    * g - dream nail

## This seems weird

So Ya, I know it's weird. I did some searching wasn't able to find much other
than this one [ reddit post ](https://www.reddit.com/r/KeyboardLayouts/comments/18kdnl0/using_asdf_instead_of_wasd_for_gaming/)
talking about using asdf.  oddly one person reccommended sdfg, this souds so
much like vim, which makes a lot of sense, but brings back moving fingers off
of home row position or using one finger for down and right, which aint gonna
work.

## First thoughts

I'm about 20 minutes in and struggling on False Knight, I could be a bit more
patient, but I'm trying to work on pogos on all the mobs on the way in.

### Holding up or down

The ability to just hold up or down as you run through the map with enemies
coming from above or below feels superior, and its going to be nice, I really
just got to put some time in to get use to the layout, maybe even make some
changes.

I realize now that Hollow Knight rarely needs quick swiching between up and
down and would probably be fine on a wasd layout if i were to be using a split
keyboard or a bit less pinky stagger that would work out, but for now I am
giving this a shot.

## My Son's experience

So my son is playing along with me, new save as well. He went with wasd and
mouse, while this sounds insane to me to use mouse for clicking and no movement
the natural feel that it has, has him blazing through faster than he does on
controller, doing pogos he's never done before.


## False Knight down

The recording somehow stuck on the menu screen and did not record video, but I
got this screenshot of the victory.

![image](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/be00de02-1cac-4dc2-8c05-9c52c9f1f124.webp)
