---
date: 2025-09-16 19:37:23
templateKey: blog-post
title: Why Make a Website in 2025
tags:
  - webdev
published: True

---

Inspired by
[Jim](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2025/why-make-a-website-in-2025/) and
[Dave](https://daverupert.com/2025/09/why-would-anybody-start-a-website/)

## It's Fun

If it's not something that you enjoy, you might as well move on there are far
better ways to spend your time in 2025.  Only the weirdos read this shit
anymore, the masses have long moved on to curated social media feeds, and on to
chatting with llms.  I enjoy spending some time in the digital garden every
once in awhile tweaking templates, creating [[ markata ]] plugins to do
interesting things.  I enjoy expressing my thoughts, or at least shouting them
into the ether.

> I'll be the first to admit that I often go to an llm for first pass at many
> things that I could look up in a guide or ðŸ˜² the docs.

## I enjoy reading others

This year I have made extra effort to add more and more people into my
[[reader]].  I enjoy reading content from people I chose to follow and can
remove whenever I want.  I enjoy reading actual human thoughts and not ai
generated content all day.

I even will create [[ thoughts ]] based on these posts that I find interesting,
and want to further share to others.  I want to give these people that took
time to make something a little boost.

## Not Perfection

The last thing we need in 2025 is perfection.  We have enough ai generated slop
that is far from perfectly accurate that sits behind a veil of mostly clean
look, semi consistent feel, and a narrow set of tone.  I see it in gen z there
is something about the imperfect that is coming out.  Not perfectly cut video
or audio.  I just heard Gary Vee mention this morning that a siren going off in
the background of NYC has a somewhat natural human feel to it now.

## Ownership

[Dave](https://daverupert.com/2025/09/why-would-anybody-start-a-website/)
points out that the first thought for most people trying to make a business or
pop off as an influencer is TikTok, then a few similar apps.  If you are trying
to reach a large audience and swim in the big pond with the big fish thats
where you need to go.

But you don't own that content anymore.  Some posts will pop, some will be lost
to the algorithm for nothing more that the first few eyes that got it swiped
past too fast.  The whole platform can go, or choose to not show your content,
its their platform.  You don't pay them for anything.  They are allowed to do
what they want.

If you want some ownership to keep your content alive, curate a small, focused,
core audience, also put that on a website.

## Not for the faint of heart

It's not easy to manage hundreds of posts, images, builds, servers.  Theres
probably a hundred ways to make it easier, but if you really want full control,
full DIY, it takes time to do.

## Learn a skill

This can go a few different ways, One is that you can make a blog or site about
a topic, deep dive into this topic.  Create blogs, videos, images, about this
topic.  Create real content that real people find interesting.

OR a bit meta, you can learn more about tech.  This site is built with [[
markata ]], its a static site generator that I built myself mostly to make this
site.  I've learned a ton about markdown, html, ast, python, plugin
architecture in doing so.  I build this site in kubernetes, another skill that
I wanted to develop, and owning my own services that I have real skin in the
game for is a great way to do so.

## Just Build Websites

As the opening to [shoptalkshow](https://shoptalkshow.com/) says, just make
websites.  Who the fuck cares why or how.  The important thing is that you
built something, maybe it is for an audience of one or one million, doesn't
matter, keep the internet alive and just build something.
