---
date: 2025-07-28 02:20:40
templateKey: gratitude
title: Gratitude 245

---

Today was the start of vacation, emotions running high, excitement comes to a
peak, everyone is frantically grabbing the last of their belongings before
hitting the road to go "where is my ... where is my ...., oh its right here."

We make a 4 hour drive north to spend a few days in a beachouse on the beach in
Wisconsin.  As the hours chipped away, as that final hour turned into 57
minutes the how long until we are there started kicking in.  Who can see the
lake first, who saw the coolest sign in Milwaukee.  Who heard the loudest car!
Everyone in the car was erupting with excitement.

Then we made it, there was the house we had for a week.

But we drove straight on by, it was the lake we wanted to see first.  It was
beautiful blue for as far as you could see.

We reversed back to our house to give the kids some needed "me time" after
being cooped up in a car in close quarters with everyone all day.  While we
unpacked our stuff.

This house is incredible, its an old wedding venue with lots of character...
and lack of modern AC.  First thing Rhiannon did was get a space closed off
enough for the window air to relieve her lungs of the high humidity.

Now for the moment we all had been waiting this whole day for.

BEACH TIME!

![Beach Time](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/5199c8f1-cd08-456b-ac79-323996729e45.mp4)

We walked down to the beach from our house, it was a cozy 5 minute walk.  Once
we hit the beach it was like someone took away all the humidity, stress of
life, the noise, and it was just us and the waves.  There was not another soul
on the beach, maybe a boat off in the distance, and some tracks from a family
and their dog that were long gone.

![screenshot-2025-08-02T16-41-31-083Z.png](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/01fe10ce-514a-4872-ac22-d3cce1b1b6bc.png)

We brought a paddle board from the house and this was our first time ever even
touching one, everyone took turns on it.  Me first of course, then each kid
rode along with me for some time.  Then Rhiannon took over, afraid she couldn't
even get on it, and she rocked it.  She was on the longest of any of us
cruising through the waves while the kids and I were off looking for the best
seashells.

![screenshot-2025-08-02T16-42-50-833Z.png](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/212a791a-f470-4e0d-b04d-41fcd6d561d4.png)

Once we walked our tired selves back to the old house we spotted a hose to
cleanup with, and hit the shower.

We finished off the day with an exciting game of ping pong, and wound down with
shuffleboard.

![screenshot-2025-08-03T01-48-23-666Z.png](https://dropper.wayl.one/api/file/006b2ea1-137a-4ec9-88f9-77991937d97c.png)
