---
date: 2022-04-29 03:15:31.775774
templateKey: gratitude
tags:
  - gratitude

title: Gratitude 180

---

Whoof It took a hot minute to get this post started, my template engine had a
bunch of breaking changes.  Today was a therapy day for Wyatt, which can be
quite chaotic, and it sure did not let down.  He had a great day leading in and
through it, but afterwards is where it all hits the fan.  Today did not
disappoint, and I can take a majority of the blame here.  You see, part of him
and what makes him who he is, cleaning up is INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT for him. Well
complete basement desctruction had happened at some point through the week, but
was just discovered.  I generally help quite graciously, at least I hope I do.
Generally I try to pick up the best I can after him throughout the day so that
things don't go too chaotic, and trust me sometimes it's a lot to keep up with.

Currently I have a broken leg and its not so easy to get up and down, so I was
pushing him a little harder than I maybe should have.  I really just wanted him
to take some responsibility and at least help in some way.  I did a great job
at calmly talking through it with him, but I was not able to help.  But we only
went backwards, more legos ended up on the floor than were actually picked up
and more cardboard scraps were created than were picked up.  I stayed calm and
did not push hard, I just stayed with him and talked to him.

Where I failed is communicating with Rhiannon,  you see she was down with him
for about 15 mintues before she had to go.  Once she left I gave them both a
pretty gracious break before we got back to cleaning up.  All felt mostly good,
but what I did not realize is that she agreed with him that he had already done
enough with her and did not need to participate anymore.

In all, its been quite awhile since I have not just simply picked up after him
with very little question.  I feel like I learned something from this
experience and hope we all have a better day tomorrow.
