---
date: 2025-06-02 20:11:46
templateKey: gratitude
title: Gratitude 213

---

Today was the first day of RTO, pretty much as expected motivation is at a
minimum.  The cube farm has no soul, no creative spark, it feels like a
machine.  It's really hard to be grateful right now. I just worked through
everything with Rhiannon, and there is no reason for any of it.  Every single
thing that there that could be better here has a but.

I am grateful for the clean air, the building actually has a TON of vertical
airspace and ventilation.  Allergies and Wildfire smoke has been crazy of the
past few weeks and It was noticeably clean in there.  The water is really good,
I went for a walk to fill up my water bottle, and the same fountains that used
to be super hard water are now fresh and filtered.  I am 1000% grateful for the
support I have, everyone from my wife, kids, co-workers, manager, and his
manager are super helpful in the transition.  Most of all Rhiannon, she is
stepping up, she is helping with feelings, she is really kicking some but right
now.  The walks are nice exercise, I go on a 10 minute walk about once an hour
for one thing or another, this is pretty normal in this building with
everything spread out so far.

I am grateful that I have a good job.  At the end of the day this is what I
need to provide for my family.  I am grateful that it's easy work that does not
result in pain, tired, and bruised at the end of the day.  Without a job right
now in this market, we'd be running door dash, draining retirement, probably
moved in with friends, and still going into debt.  This is not what anyone
wants or needs and would set us up to depend on our kids in our late years
rather than enjoying them.  As much as the world sucks right now, having a good
paying job that is easy on the body is not all that bad at the end of the day.

Everything is going to work out, kids are getting older and much more
supportive and helpful around the house.  Heck this will probably teach them
some more responsibility.  Rhiannon will be OK, her health is doing really well
right now.  Getting back into rhythm is not easy, but it will happen and
everything will be okay in the end.
