---
date: 2025-07-30 01:18:28
templateKey: gratitude
title: Gratitude 247

---

Final day at the beach house on the lake, and it was a great one, kicked off
the day with some time in "The Warehouse" with the kids.  But First Coffee,
Ayla helped with Coffee by recording and dictating my every move with grinding
through the french press.  She gave grinding a go, but her arms could not go
very quickly.

With a fresh Cup, Ayla and I proceeded to a game of pool where Ayla won on
count of me scratching on an 8ball.  She was doing great and made a few balls
in on her own, don't worry.

With some coffee down we headed up to wake Mom and see how she was doing, we
brought her a drink of my coffee, _not a big coffee drinker_.  We picked our
next adventure and we were off.

Full of joy and excitement we all hopped in the van not quite sure what to
expect, but looking for some trails.  We ended up finding one we had researched
that had a short walk to an absolutely beautiful old limestone quarry that has
become a crystal clear, **DEEP** Lake with beautiful trails surrounding it.

Sweated through everything we had we headed back for lunch.  I forgot to
mention, the weather today was much cooler and less humid, but still humid
enough to work up a sweat.  We made some great turkey sandwiches and took some
downtime.  I took a few minutes to play some darts on the old wooden dart
board.

Late in the afternoon Rhiannon had an appointment that she scheduled long ago
that was hard to reschedule, she took it from the cool comfort of our barely
keeping up Air Conditioning while I took the kids down to the beach for one
last swim in the beautiful lake.

When we got there we immediately noticed there was so much less algae build up,
and it was very clear not too far out from shore.  We paddled, swam, build
sandcastles, and had a great time in the cool water.

We were packing up right as mom was coming to get us, for the next adventure.
We went into port Washington to admire the lighthouses, get a souvenir, and
dinner.  Unfortunately for us we found the main attraction light house was
under construction.  It was under a huge bubbly black tarp used to keep lead
paint dust out of the water while they stripped it down for a fresh coat of
paint.

Now we are wrapping up the last full day of vacation in the beach house.  We
have had a fantastic time!  Not everything here is perfect, but it's all been
set up for a great time, if we could ask for anything more it would be some
cooler, less humid air for Rhiannon's Lungs.  I'm so happy that we were able to
do this vacation as a family!  It's memories that we will keep with us
forever!

