---
date: 2022-02-11 03:14:10.974147
templateKey: gratitude
tags:
  - gratitude

title: Gratitude 148

---

It's been a few weeks since I have talked to Mom, It kinda hurts.  I
really don't know what to do.  This stupid pandemic is to dang politcal
for it's own good.  I for once am standing strong beside my wife and am
supporting her the best I can.  Her doctors have told her that there is
no way her body could survive getting COVID-19 so it is really hard for
me to understand anyone who chooses to go unvaccinated.

Ok so I can kinda get it wtih the vegan hipsters that don't take any
modern medication and use yoga to cure their pneumonia.  Not getting the
vaccine aligns right in with their core values.  But those who are
slinging fried food, steak, burgers, and beer on a regular basis.  I
really cannot fathom a "my body, my choice" argument.  It just does not
compute with me.  We live in a society that depends on each other.  As
much as some people would like to think they can survive in the woods,
the fact is they don't.  They live in a society built on groups of
people working together.  The fact that this thing is still going on is
rediculous.  The fact that DEATH RATES, not just cases is higher than
when it started, with the unvaccinated getting taken down 20x more is
just insane to me.

What really hurts is that there are people like Rhiannon dying during
the large spikes because they cannot get the care they need.  Hospitals
are overwhelmed with unvaccinated, who had a choice in the matter.
Rhiannon is living with an uncurable cancer, she has absolutely no
choice in the matter when her body decides it's going to shut down and
need an ICU bed.

It's really just hard to imagine that anyone we thought was close to us
really give two fucks about her at the end of the day if they are not
doing their part.
